# Component State and Service State

These demonstrations are to show "lifting" state, from state inside of a component, to state within a provided service, to persisting the state so that it survives reloads.

## Getting the Sample Code

You can download the sample code for this by finding yourself a nice clean directory on your machine and running

```sh
npx gitpick JeffryGonzalez/site-applied-angular/tree/main/projects/angular-reference/state
cd state
npm i && code .
```

## Video Walkthrough of Demo

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1086041184?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write; encrypted-media" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Angular State - Component and Service"></iframe></div>

## Ephemeral Component State

This is state (signals) that live within the component. You'll notice that every time you visit the component, the data is reloaded, and your sorting preferences are reset.

The following code is the first demo, it lives at `src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-one.ts` in the project:

<<< ../../projects/angular-reference/state/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-one.ts

You can see in the above sample code that there are a couple of signals (`sortBy` and `orderBy`). I'm using an Angular `resource` to load some data.

There is a `computed` called `productsSorted` that uses the signals to produce the sorted output for the template.

## Lifting State to a Service

In this example, we lift the signals for sorting to a service (@NGRX/signal-store) so that the values are retained while the application is running.

The service lives at `src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-store.ts`:

<<< ../../projects/angular-reference/state/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-store.ts

It is *provided* in the routes at `src/ephemeral-user/routes.ts`:

<<< ../../projects/angular-reference/state/src/ephemeral-user/routes.ts

And the component for this (at `/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-two.ts`):

<<< ../../projects/angular-reference/state/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-two.ts

You can see the signals for `sortBy` and `orderBy` are *lifted* to the service. Since this component *owns* the `products` `resource`, I left the computed for `productsSorted` in the component itself.

That means that each time this component is viewed (either loaded, or navigated to during the life of the instance of the application) it will reload the products from the api.

## Persisting State

The final demo is persisting the state in the browsers `localStorage`. 

The only real change is in the service itself, which is at `/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-three.ts`.
Notice the `withHooks` addition to the service. 

<<< ../../projects/angular-reference/state/src/ephemeral-user/sort-filter-store-two.ts

The `onInit` hook:

- checks `localStorage` for a saved value, and if it exists, it patches the state with this value.
- uses the `watchState` function that will be called each time that state changes, it uses this to save changes to `localStorage`